Pinterest tag cloud mode (#872)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/destinations/streaming-destinations/pinterest-ads/pinterest-ads-cloud-mode.mdx

---
title: "Pinterest Tag Cloud Mode"
description: Detailed technical documentation on sending events to Pinterest Tag using the cloud mode.
---

> 

Reviewer: We have to mention that this is beta feature right now. The Pinterest Conversions API is accessible on-demand. To use cloud mode for Pinterest tag (i.e Pinterest conversions API) one needs to contact Pinterest Support to enable beta access.

Please create a info callout here

> RudderStack lets you send your event data to Pinterest Tag via the <Link to="/destinations/rudderstack-connection-modes/#cloud-mode">cloud mode</Link>. It sends the event calls in a <Link to="/docs/api/http-api/#12-batch">batch</Link> where each batch can contain upto 1000 events.

Reviewer 2: RudderStack lets you send your event data to [Pinterest Conversion API ](s.pinimg.com/ct/docs/conversions_api/dist/v3.html)

<GhBadge
  label={'Stability'}
  message={'Beta'}
  color={'blueviolet'}
/>

<div class="infoBlock">
Find the open source JavaScript SDK code for this destination in the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/v0/destinations/pinterest_tag">GitHub repository</a>.
</div>

## Track

> The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> call allows you to capture user actions along with the properties associated with these actions.

Reviewer 2: Track call allows you to capture conversion events for users.

The track events are mapped as specified in the **Map Your Events To Pinterest Events** connection setting in the dashboard.

A sample `track` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track("Order Completed", {
  event_id: 'eventIDordercompleted',
  order_id: "transactionId",
  value: 35.00,
  revenue: 31.98,
  currency: 'USD',
  products: [{
    product_id: '123454387',
    price: 3.00,
    quantity: 2,
    currency: 'USD',
    position: 1,
    value: 6.00,
  }]
}, {
  traits: {
    email: "alex@example.com",
    lastname: "Keener",
    firstname: "Alex",
    action_source: "offline" // or app_ios / app_android / web
  }
});
```

### E-Commerce

RudderStack supports e-commerce conversion tracking for Pinterest. You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/ecommerce-events-spec/">E-commerce Events Specification</Link> guide for sending the events while instrumenting your site with the RudderStack SDK.

> The following table mentions some sample `track` events mapped to the Pinterest events:

Reviewer 2: The following table mentions how the specific Rudderstack `track` Ecommerce events are mapped to standard Pinterest Conversion Events.

| RudderStack event | Pinterest event  |
| :--------------------- | :------------------- |
| Order Completed        | `Checkout`           |
| Product Added          | `AddToCart`          |
| Products Searched      | `Search`             |
| Product List Filtered    | `Search`           |

You can also track a custom event that you want to include in the conversion reporting. It will be mapped to a custom Pinterest event, for example:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track("custom event")
```

### Standard Pinterest events

Pinterest supports the following nine standard events that can be mapped and tracked for reporting. Any event apart from these is treated as a user-defined event.

- `Checkout`
- `AddToCart`
- `PageVisit`
- `SignUp`
- `WatchVideo`
- `Lead`
- `Search`
- `ViewCategory`
- `Custom`

<div class="infoBlock">
These events aren’t available for conversion reporting.
</div>

## Page

The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/page">`page`</Link> call lets you record your website's page views with any additional relevant information about the viewed page.

> Pinterest's `pintrk` conversion tag sends any one of the following events when you make a `page` call:

Reviewer 2: Line 91-92 --> This part is for device mode. Lets remove this

---
title: "Pinterest Tag Cloud Mode"
description: Detailed technical documentation on sending events to Pinterest Tag using the cloud mode.
---

RudderStack lets you send your event data to [Pinterest Conversions API](https://s.pinimg.com/ct/docs/conversions_api/dist/v3.html) via the <Link to="/destinations/rudderstack-connection-modes/#cloud-mode">cloud mode</Link>. It sends the event calls in a <Link to="/docs/api/http-api/#12-batch">batch</Link> where each batch can contain upto 1000 events.

<GhBadge
  label={'Stability'}
  message={'Beta'}
  color={'blueviolet'}
/>

<div class="warningBlock">

> To use Pinterest Tag's cloud mode (Pinterest conversions API), you need to contact Pinterest Support to enable the beta access.

Reviewer 3: should we add a link to Pinterest support?

</div>

<div class="infoBlock">
Find the open source JavaScript SDK code for this destination in the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/v0/destinations/pinterest_tag">GitHub repository</a>.
</div>

## Track

> The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> call allows you to capture conversion events for users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> call allows you to capture the users' conversion events.
```

Reviewer 3: would this be accurate?

> The track events are mapped as specified in the **Map Your Events To Pinterest Events** connection setting in the dashboard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `track` events are mapped as specified in the **Map Your Events To Pinterest Events** connection setting in the dashboard.
```

A sample `track` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track("Order Completed", {
  event_id: 'eventIDordercompleted',
  order_id: "transactionId",
  value: 35.00,
  revenue: 31.98,
  currency: 'USD',
  products: [{
    product_id: '123454387',
    price: 3.00,
    quantity: 2,
    currency: 'USD',
    position: 1,
    value: 6.00,
  }]
}, {
  traits: {
    email: "alex@example.com",
    lastname: "Keener",
    firstname: "Alex",
    action_source: "offline" // or app_ios / app_android / web
  }
});
```

> ### E-Commerce

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### E-commerce conversion tracking
```

Reviewer 3: ref to the [style guide terms](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ckR10XHknL9z8GusrARCkZehu6m1CT-erNbWdC6Qr_k/edit#gid=0)

The following table mentions how the specific Rudderstack `track` Ecommerce events are mapped to standard Pinterest Conversion Events:

| RudderStack event | Pinterest event  |
| :--------------------- | :------------------- |
| Order Completed        | `Checkout`           |
| Product Added          | `AddToCart`          |
| Products Searched      | `Search`             |
| Product List Filtered    | `Search`           |

You can also track a custom event that you want to include in the conversion reporting. It will be mapped to a custom Pinterest event, for example:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track("custom event")
```

### Standard Pinterest events

Pinterest supports the following nine standard events that can be mapped and tracked for reporting. Any event apart from these is treated as a user-defined event.

- `Checkout`
- `AddToCart`
- `PageVisit`
- `SignUp`
- `WatchVideo`
- `Lead`
- `Search`
- `ViewCategory`
- `Custom`

<div class="infoBlock">

> These events aren’t available for conversion reporting.

Reviewer 3: Wondering if this should be a warning block.

</div>

## Page

The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/page">`page`</Link> call lets you record your website's page views with any additional relevant information about the viewed page.

> - **`view_category`**: RudderStack sends this event if both the `name` and `category` fields are present. The below sample event contains both and is mapped to the Pinterest's `view_category` event:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **`view_category`**: RudderStack sends this event if both the `name` and `category` fields are present. The following sample event contains both the fields and is mapped to the Pinterest's `view_category` event:
```

  referrer: "https://www.google.com/search?q=estore+bestseller",
  testDimension: "true",
})
```
- **`page_visit`**: RudderStack sends this event if only `name` field is present and drops any additional properties. The below sample event contains only `name` and is mapped to the Pinterest's `page_visit` event:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.page("Best Seller", {
  path: "/best-seller/1",
})
```

## Common field mappings

The following table lists the mappings specific for Pinterest Conversion API and are relevant for both the `track` and `page` calls:

| RudderStack property | Pinterest Tag property | Presence | Description | 
|:---------------------|:-------------|:--------------|:--------------|
| `message.event` | `event_name` | Required | Type of the user event. |
| `context.traits.action_source`/`properties.action_source`/`message.channel` | `action_source` |Required | Source indicating the occurence of conversion event. |
| `timestamp` | `event_time` | Required | Unix timestamp (in UTC) in seconds indicating when the user conversion event occurred. |
| `destination.Config.advertiserId` | `advertiser_id` | Required | Pinterest Advertiser ID. |

> |  Integrations Object `messageId` | `event_id` | Optional | Unique Id (string) that identifies the event and can be used for deduping. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|  Integrations Object `messageId` | `event_id` | Optional | Unique ID (string) that identifies the event and can be used for deduping. |
```

| `pageUrl` | `event_source_url` | Optional | URL of the web conversion event. |

> | `context.device.adTrackingEnabled` | `opt_out` | Optional | When <code class="inline-code">action_source</code> is **web** or **offline**, it defines whether the user has opted out of tracking for web conversion events whereas when <code class="inline-code">action_source</code> is **app_android** or **app_ios**, it defines whether the user has enabled **Limit Ad Tracking** on their iOS device or opted out of **Ads Personalization** on their Android device.|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `context.device.adTrackingEnabled` | `opt_out` | Optional | When <code class="inline-code">action_source</code> is **web** or **offline**, it defines whether the user has opted out of tracking for web conversion events. When <code class="inline-code">action_source</code> is **app_android** or **app_ios**, it defines whether the user has enabled **Limit Ad Tracking** on their iOS device or opted out of **Ads Personalization** on their Android device.|
```

| `context.app.version`/`properties.appVersion` | `app_version` | Optional |Version of the app. |
| `context.device.manufacturer`/`properties.manufacturer` | `device_brand` |Optional | Brand of the user device. |
|  `context.device.model`/`properties.deviceModel` | `device_model` | Optional | Model of the user device. |
| `context.device.type`/`properties.deviceType` | `device_type` | Optional | Type of the user device. |
|  `context.os.version` | `os_version` | Optional | Version of the device's operating system. |
| `context.locale` | `language` | Optional | Two-character ISO-639-1 language code indicating the user's language. | 

<div class="infoBlock">
For mobile sources, if <code class="inline-code">context.device.adTrackingEnabled</code> is <code class="inline-code">true</code>, <code class="inline-code">opt_out</code> will be set as <code class="inline-code">false</code> and vice-versa.
</div>

## User field mappings

The following table lists the mappings for fields carrying the user information for `track` and `page` calls:

| RudderStack property | Pinterest Tag property | Data Type | 
|:---------------------|:-------------|:--------------|

> | `email` | `em` | Array of strings with SHA-256 |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `email` | `em` | Array of strings with SHA-256 encoding |
```

> | `email` | `em` | Array of strings with SHA-256 |

Reviewer 3: Should we say "Array of strings encoded with SHA-256" or "Array of strings with SHA-256 encoding" ? Although the intent is obvious, it feels a bit incomplete. Thoughts?

| `phone` | `ph` | Array of strings with SHA-256 |
| `context.traits.gender` | `ge` | Array of strings with SHA-256 |
| `birthday` | `db` (yyyymmdd format) |  Array of strings with SHA-256 |
|  `lastName` | `ln` | Array of strings with SHA-256 | 
| `firstName` | `fn` | Array of strings with SHA-256 |
| `context.traits.city`/`context.traits.address.city` | `ct` | Array of strings with SHA-256|
| `context.traits.state`/`context.traits.address.state` | `st` (Two-letter code) | Array of strings with SHA-256 |
| `context.traits.zip`/`context.traits.address.zip` | `zp` | Array of strings with SHA-256 |
|  `context.traits.country`/`context.traits.address.country` | `country` (Two-character ISO-3166 country code) |Array of strings with SHA-256 | 
| `context.device.advertisingId` | `hashed_maids` | Array of strings with SHA-256 |
| `context.ip`/`context.requestIP`/`properties.ip`/`properties.clientIpAddress` | `client_ip_address` | String|
| `context.userAgent` | `client_user_agent` | String |

<div class="warningBlock">

> In order to send events for the <code class="inline-code">track</code> or <code class="inline-code">page</code> call successfully, you need to send <strong>at least one</strong> of the following user properties:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To send the <code class="inline-code">track</code> or <code class="inline-code">page</code> events successfully, you need to include <strong>at least one</strong> of the following user properties:
```
